README.md, before:

# Wiki Language Analyzer & Scraper

An automated web scraping and natural language processing tool that analyzes word frequencies across different languages. This project extracts text from Bulbapedia (Pokewiki de/fr) and ExplainXKCD articles (but it easily supports any other wiki-ecosystem with a few changes), processes the data, and applies statistical concepts like Zipf's Law and Kullback-Leibler (KL) Divergence to calculate language confidence scores.

## Key Features

* **Automated Web Crawler:** Implements a Breadth-First Search (BFS) algorithm to navigate and scrape linked articles up to a specified depth.
* **Statistical Text Analysis:** Calculates word probabilities and verifies Zipf's Law distributions against real-world scraped data.
* **Language Detection & Scoring:** Compares scraped text frequencies against baseline language models using KL Divergence to accurately identify the text's language.
* **Data Visualization:** Automatically generates comparative bar charts to visualize word frequency distributions and test results using Matplotlib.
* **Modular Architecture:** Clean separation of concerns across scraping, data management, mathematical analysis, and visualization.

## Technologies Used

* **Language:** Python 3
* **Web Scraping:** `requests`, `BeautifulSoup4`
* **Data Manipulation:** `pandas`, `numpy`
* **Natural Language Processing:** `wordfreq`
* **Visualization:** `matplotlib`

## Project Structure

* `language_analysis.py`: The main orchestration script that runs the analysis pipeline and joins datasets for final scoring.
* `wiki_scraper.py`: Handles CLI-like execution for scraping, summarizing, and building word counts.
* `scraper.py`: Core web scraping logic, HTML parsing, and DOM traversal.
* `analyzer.py`: Contains the mathematical bulk of the project, calculating probabilities, Zipf values, and formatting DataFrames.
* `chart_engine.py`: Dedicated module for generating and exporting statistical charts.
* `file_manager.py`: Centralized utility for handling all file I/O operations (JSON, CSV, HTML, TXT).
* `unit_test.py` & `integration_test.py`: Automated testing suites to ensure scraper and analyzer reliability.

## Installation & Setup

1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone [https://github.com/yourusername/wiki-language-analyzer.git](https://github.com/yourusername/wiki-language-analyzer.git)
   cd wiki-language-analyzer

2. Create a virtual environment (recommended):
   ```bash
    python3 -m venv venv
    source venv/bin/activate  # On Windows use `venv\Scripts\activate`

3. Install the project and dependencies
   ```bash
    pip install . # Use pip install .[dev] if running tests

## Important note on the statistical method used

Most of the measurements that are shown in the example jupyter notebook and the visualisations that are coded into draw_language_test_bar_chart() function in chart_engine.py, as well as the choice of articles in language_analysis.py is not very scientifically valid. Of course everyone is welcome to modify the folders the analysis tool draws from as well as the content of the charts. The example doesn't try very hard to control for important factors such as topic, length or date. It does not calculate and show averages either - though implementing this is a matter of simply transforming a pandas data frame. The goal was to create a tool and showcase its use - and other interesting or important scientific aspects were sidelined.

Commit message:

Update README with project details and folder structure
Clarified the limitations of the statistical method used and emphasized the importance of the wikiscraper package and key functions. Added information about the folders created by the project.

README.md, after:

# Wiki Language Analyzer & Scraper

An automated web scraping and natural language processing tool that analyzes word frequencies across different languages. This project extracts text from Bulbapedia (Pokewiki de/fr) and ExplainXKCD articles (but it easily supports any other wiki-ecosystem with a few changes), processes the data, and applies statistical concepts like Zipf's Law and Kullback-Leibler (KL) Divergence to calculate language confidence scores.

## Key Features

* **Automated Web Crawler:** Implements a Breadth-First Search (BFS) algorithm to navigate and scrape linked articles up to a specified depth.
* **Statistical Text Analysis:** Calculates word probabilities and verifies Zipf's Law distributions against real-world scraped data.
* **Language Detection & Scoring:** Compares scraped text frequencies against baseline language models using KL Divergence to accurately identify the text's language.
* **Data Visualization:** Automatically generates comparative bar charts to visualize word frequency distributions and test results using Matplotlib.
* **Modular Architecture:** Clean separation of concerns across scraping, data management, mathematical analysis, and visualization.

## Technologies Used

* **Language:** Python 3
* **Web Scraping:** `requests`, `BeautifulSoup4`
* **Data Manipulation:** `pandas`, `numpy`
* **Natural Language Processing:** `wordfreq`
* **Visualization:** `matplotlib`

## Project Structure

* `language_analysis.py`: The main orchestration script that runs the analysis pipeline and joins datasets for final scoring.
* `wiki_scraper.py`: Handles CLI-like execution for scraping, summarizing, and building word counts.
* `scraper.py`: Core web scraping logic, HTML parsing, and DOM traversal.
* `analyzer.py`: Contains the mathematical bulk of the project, calculating probabilities, Zipf values, and formatting DataFrames.
* `chart_engine.py`: Dedicated module for generating and exporting statistical charts.
* `file_manager.py`: Centralized utility for handling all file I/O operations (JSON, CSV, HTML, TXT).
* `unit_test.py` & `integration_test.py`: Automated testing suites to ensure scraper and analyzer reliability.

## Installation & Setup

1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone [https://github.com/yourusername/wiki-language-analyzer.git](https://github.com/yourusername/wiki-language-analyzer.git)
   cd wiki-language-analyzer

2. Create a virtual environment (recommended):
   ```bash
    python3 -m venv venv
    source venv/bin/activate  # On Windows use `venv\Scripts\activate`

3. Install the project and dependencies
   ```bash
    pip install . # Use pip install .[dev] if running tests

## Important note on the statistical method used

Most of the measurements that are shown in the example jupyter notebook and the visualisations that are coded into draw_language_test_bar_chart() function in chart_engine.py, as well as the choice of articles in language_analysis.py is not very scientifically valid. Of course everyone is welcome to modify the folders the analysis tool draws from as well as the content of the charts. The example doesn't try very hard to control for important factors such as topic, length or date. It does not calculate and show averages either - though implementing this is a matter of simply transforming a pandas data frame. The goal was to create a tool and showcase its use - and other interesting or important scientific aspects were sidelined. The most important and useful part of the project is the entire **wikiscraper** package and the **perform_tests()**, **lang_confidence_score()** and **prepare_test_articles()** functions. They allow you to analyse any properly structured json against any language and any number of most popular words. In the end**draw_language_test_bar_chart()** creates data visualisations. 

## Other used folders 

The project will create a few folders in the main WikiScraper folder that it is cloned into when used. Notably: charts, csv, json, html and txt. The names are quite self-explanatory. The json directory is the most important - it contains language folders and the art folder. These folders will contain all the json word counts for any article. It is quite simple to change these folder names - but it is not necessary as you can easily manually change their content. The txt file should contain all the txt articles that language_analysis.py will turn into word counts and save in json/art.
